(gentle instrumental music)
With all of the grand events that seem to be playing out
across the world, we met up, once again, with Jessica Murray
to see how the stars point to the opportunities
embedded within the challenges.
Our conversation about the astrological chart
of the United States has been the focus of our discourse,
and each stage has come to pass with the great challenge
and opportunities still laying ahead.
Relax and dial into this one.
We go deeper and deeper as the interview progresses.
It's been a little over a year
since we last chatted.
When we did, I think it was right after the downturn
in the economy, and it was just about
the time of Obama's election.
What we were focusing on at that time,
was Saturn-Uranus opposition that was going on
that you say is continuing until July of this year.
Just to kind of give us a reference point
from where we were, how that has been playing out
according to what you saw back then,
up until what happens through July on that.
We'll finish that off and then go into some new stuff,
but I just want to pick up where we left off.
The Saturn-Uranus opposition
is one of the arms of the T-square,
which is moving into the grand cross in cardinal signs.
And again, explain all that.
I will, but you know, the thing that you hear about
when you hear about 2012, according to western astrology,
is really talking about the cardinal T-square,
which includes the Saturn-Uranus opposition.
You could say that opposition we talked about last time
is kind of its spine, and it's a two year chunk
of a big series of configurations
which have a lot of moving parts.
It's so complex, which is why it's such a big deal.
That and its rarity.
The Saturn-Uranus opposition we've already
had our big taste of,
and, in essence, it governs the tendency
of entrenched, fearful of change
institutions, if you look at it on a collective level.
It means all those agencies and people,
and groups that don't want to change.
Paralyzed.
They're hunkering down,
and they're opposed to Uranus, which governs, really,
the force of ideas whose time have come.
That we've seen all along,
I mean, since Obama was elected.
We've seen it act out in the form of
any kind of reform that tried to happen
was squelched through these almost hysterically
obdurate filibustering parts of society.
I think about the U.S. chart mostly,
because it's what I study, am closest with.
We looked at where in the U.S. chart
Saturn and Uranus were opposing.
We've had Saturn on the midheaven,
which governs the presidency, and leadership,
and our face in the world.
We've had that going on and then, little by little,
these other pieces of the cardinal cross
have been slipping into gear.
One of the pieces of the Saturn-Uranus opposition
that is a main theme, star of the show,
is Pluto having moved into Capricorn.
Yes.
Which had happened right around the time we talked last.
Which astrologers mostly chalk up
the financial global collapse to that,
because Pluto is complete destruction.
Yet, at the same time, we're seeing
the entrenchment happening, as with the banking industry,
for example, trying to hang on by frayed fingernails
to the old way.
Again, this re-entrenchment into greed
at an insane level.
It was Michael Moore who said that greed became legalized.
Yes, greed became legalized.
Over the past few years.
We had this, this was the preview to what's going on now.
Yes, and we're going to get into that,
so is there anything else about that from then
that you want to continue on?
Or should we just jump into --
Well, you know, you can't really understand the Saturn,
which has just now moved into Libra,
opposing Uranus, which is just about to move into Aries.
What's that mean?
Well, both of these signs are making ingresses.
Both of these planets are making sign changes,
and that is sort of like they're clicking into gear,
one step further into the big 2012 placements
that I'm calling the cardinal T-square.
Okay, now if we haven't dealt well
with where the positions were before,
in terms of, as you say, this re-entrenchment into old ways
instead of flowing into the new.
Shall I define them?
Then what does this mean?
What does this mean if we haven't done our part
in reaction to the times?
Well, it's an interesting question because
this is just the beginning of the intensity.
To the extent that each of these little milestones
that this whole configuration, which is really
a series of configurations and not just one thing.
Each little move towards the peaks of the 2012 years,
which I'll define in a minute,
has a job of separating the sheep from the goats, i think.
Each one of them makes it more and more clear
that we can either get out of denial
and step up to what's happening,
and get clearer,
and live through our charts, or not.
I think the "or not" thing is going to be
making life very hard for people, a lot of people.
Essentially, we can choose to not step up,
but if we do, it's going to become
increasingly uncomfortable in our experience?
I think it's going to be exciting.
When people step up, what they're going to do is,
they're going to realize that there are aspects
of their own individual charts
which have been waiting all their lives for that.
This is my take on it.
This is kind of a humanistic astrology take on it,
which doesn't really see things quite the same way
as the Vedic astrologers,
or the more prediction-oriented astrologers.
We see life being created at every moment.
If you consider that what you have to work with
is all in coded form in your individual chart,
then you realize that your only job, really,
is to pay attention to the moment
and use what you've already got,
which will feel like instinct,
it'll feel like a natural impulse to do so.
If you're in the present moment.
you'll be told what to do.
I mean, you'll be told by your inner self what to do.
We'll call it living through the chart.
I think this is another interesting
place to put in that a lot of people are asking,
consciousness seekers are asking,
"But what will I do when the 2012 energies
"really start to climb and climb and climb,
"really through 2016?"
We're going to work through that.
We'll work through that, but I just thought we'd --
But I wanted to say one thing about that, if I may.
Yeah.
You don't have to do anything but live through your chart.
You don't have to do anything but show up
to who you already are.
I think that the business of doing is
not really where it's at.
It's about being.
It's about being your chart, which is an astrologist's way
of saying, being yourself,
and using all the resources at your disposal.
But I just wanted to put this in,
because there's kind of an understandable
fear and desperation, even among consciousness seekers,
about how can I show up for this world-altering phase,
this epoch that they've heard so much about.
The answer is, don't really worry about doing.
Just be your chart.
You've got all of the ingredients already.
Which means, live by your instincts.
It does.
Instincts is a big word, which we might
have to explain a little bit,
because, of course, various people use it in different ways.
In this context, I mean that those strong impulses,
when you're in the moment, that are already there,
are your purest guide for why you even decided
on a soul level to show up at this time.
That's the big assumption, isn't it?
That's what's axiomatic in humanistic astrology, is that
we did all decide on some level to show up right now.
We made this choice.
Let's go into some of what you're looking at now,
which is the whole, I think it's the Uranus-Pluto,
I'm still in the old way of saying it,
Uranus-Pluto square, 2012, and all of the, really,
paradigm shifts that we're going to be looking for
that have been spoken about in many ways
through many different lenses,
whether it's the Mayan calendar or what-not.
But you're looking at it through an astrological lens,
so let's talk about some of those trends
that we should be looking at.
I think that when western astrology talks about 2012,
mostly people mean the seven exact hits
of Uranus square Pluto,
which go from the middle of 2012 until 2016.
We would consider that a peak time,
but even within that peak time, there are peaks.
If you were to graph it, it would look like this.
People who really track their transits
want to know when those peaks are,
and they want to know how they overlie
with their own charts.
That's where astrology can get into a lot of detail.
Okay, let's start with 2012 in terms of,
are there some significant peaks within 2012
with this particular --
The first one is that first hit of Uranus square Pluto,
and I think that that would be the strongest arm
of the cross.
It's the one between the two slowest moving planets,
so they have that much more gravitas.
Those transits in general, which are the slowest,
happen the least frequently, are the ones
that are considered the most profound.
We're talking about world-altering energies
confronting each other.
I think we talked about, last time, how
the last time that Uranus and Pluto
had this kind of a fraught coming together
was in the mid '60s,
and we remember what happened then.
That's another way that astrologers look ahead,
even though we don't,
I don't like to predict.
I do look at what's coming energetically,
and I look at the fact that we were in this waning square
of Uranus and Pluto, and now we're in the --
I'm sorry, we were in the conjunction of it in '65, '66,
as a world, and we had these consciousness movements
exploding all over the place.
We had assassinations and violence,
but we also had revolutions of consciousness with people.
Now, we're coming to their first square since then.
It's a development, you see,
if you look at history, in terms of an unfolding.
You can also look at the fact that,
I know this is complex, but this is all the layers
that are going on, the planet Jupiter,
which is a relatively quickly moving planet
compared to these big guys.
Jupiter will be conjuncting Uranus this summer.
What's the mean?
I'll be saying this to everything, "What's that mean?"
Yes, and I'm going to try to get there,
but I want to give the backdrop of reminding us
that all of these have a different kind of veilance.
Jupiter's almost like a second hand of a clock
compared to the Uranus-Pluto thing we were talking about,
which is the hour hand.
Again, using the idea of, what did it do last time?
The last time Jupiter and Uranus were doing
something like this on a cardinal point,
which they will be now,
was the summer of the Manson murders,
I remember, yes.
Woodstock, and the moon walk.
Mixed bag.
Well, they're all so grand.
Powerful. Grand.
They're all so dramatic.
They're all so world-altering.
They're game-changing.
It's that idea of game-changing-ness that you look at,
when you consider Jupiter and Uranus
are doing their thing.
Jupiter just went last night into Pisces.
It's going to whip through Pisces
and it's going to meet up with Uranus,
which goes into Aries in late May and June.
June 26th there's going to be a full moon.
I'm looking at May and June as kind of a,
the first of the grand explosions.
When you say grand explosions,
what does that mean?
Let's go back to the Saturn-Uranus opposition,
which was the idea of
energies that don't want to change
and which are hanging on for dear life,
opposed to explosive newness which can't not change,
and invention.
The pressure is excruciating.
Yeah.
It isn't that Saturn has to take this
low level of expression.
Let's go back later and talk about the ways
that we want to use it, but what we've seen so far,
and what we can expect when when we think of
the pressure that you talk about,
is that Jupiter will join Uranus.
It's like if you have a see-saw
and one more kid gets on that other end.
Jupiter exaggerates what it touches,
and it's touching the planet of invention and explosion.
Saturn might be left up here like the kid
with her legs kicking in the air.
This is the way the balance is going to fall.
It's not going to be possible for the reactionary forces
to keep on the same tack
when Jupiter and Uranus conjoin this spring and summer.
Something's got to give.
Well, let's get into one specific,
because this same period of time
keeps coming up in economic circles
as another likely downturn,
or certainly destabilization of what's happening now,
which is already fairly destabilized.
I mean, you don't see that, when we talked before,
you said, in 2008, which it was.
It was what, September, October of 2008
is when started seeing the real tumble in the economy.
We're now looking at some of the spun-off effects from that
which haven't really even gained speed yet.
We're just seeing the beginning of the passed on
effects of that, but you're saying,
with these various aspects, we're looking at
something even more powerful happening by summer,
as the people in the world of economics are saying.
How do you see that expressing itself from here, then,
just looking at economics alone?
Well, I see the economic downturn as a symbol.
I see everything as a symbol.
If you look at the constituents of this symbol,
you see Pluto, which governs destruction and break down
in the sign of monetary systems, which is Capricorn.
It was right when it had ingressed into that placement
that we had the first --
It was right on, yeah.
Now, we have that placement backed up by Uranus,
which is the intensity that comes of the future trying to
bring forth, in an evolutionary way,
some sets of conditions.
For example, enlightenment among the people.
I smile when I say that because it sounds
like a cliche,
but Uranus really does govern freedom,
and freedom to think.
When it's in Aries, which is the sign of leadership
and invention, you do get a picture
of a whole populace, which is Uranus, the people,
rising up with a kind of an independence of thought.
What are they squaring?
What are they in conflict with?
They're in conflict with this dying beast
of an economic system.
Now, I want to say something here because
I do think we have to make the distinction between
the events on the ground, so to speak,
and the symbolic energies that are behind them.
Because I believe, and this is kind of the Tarnas,
Richard Tarnas, school of looking at astrology
as being very precise at predicting archetypes,
but not that good at predicting actual events.
We don't really care about those.
But when you look at the archetypes that are
vying for prominence here, Uranus and Pluto,
you get the feeling that something is trying to
come to group consciousness,
that's been happening all along.
This idea that we've had a federal reserve
which nobody knows, I mean the public
really doesn't have a clue what it's about.
It still doesn't understand this is not
even federal, for starters.
Right.
The incredible corruption of it, you know.
Bernanke going to lunch with all these guys,
he's supposed to be --
The revolving door of Goldman-Sachs
and so on and so on.
The fed is just this great monolithic secret,
dark, totally Plutonian symbol.
Let's use it.
It's the perfect symbol for Pluto in Capricorn.
I don't know if there's going to be this massive
breakthrough, where people start asking questions about,
what exactly is the fed?
And why are the same economists that are supposedly
objective, the very ones that are trying to manage
congressional policy about the fed?
Why are they on the fed payroll?
All of these kinds of things, I imagine,
will start to come up in the public mind,
so that when I say that there's going to be
a new breakthrough, a new explosion
in the financial landscape in the USA,
which starts the whole thing going
in ripple effect throughout the world here,
what I mean is that something's going to burst up
through collective consciousness.
These corruptions have been there,
but they haven't been exposed.
They haven't met that tipping point,
where the mass mind in general gets it.
That's what I think astrology's very good at predicting.
For example,
back when Saturn was opposing Neptune,
when Al Gore's wonderful documentary came out,
it wasn't until then that there was something
that broke through that crust,
and this tipping point of the American public
got hip to global warming.
It isn't that people hadn't known about it for a long time,
that scientists hadn't been ready,
if anybody had asked them, with all kinds of evidence.
It's that it took this tipping point.
That's what I think we're going to be seeing
from the summer on, and it didn't start this summer,
but it's going to be incrementally more intense
with every milestone of this series of peaks,
a series of tipping points.
What about, when you speak of tipping points,
what about the notion of conflict,
whether it be domestic or global?
You mean armed conflict?
Yes, armed conflict.
Oh, it's absolutely in there,
but, in a way, it too is a symbol,
because the kinds of conflicts that the post-millennial
world is finding itself in, that it doesn't really
have the equipment to deal with,
are such a thing, for example, as a trade war.
It's almost like we don't have the psychic vocabulary
as a group to imagine a trade war
in the same terms that we imagine
taking our drone planes and tanks to Afghanistan.
That's really that second idea.
it's a very old-fashioned way of fighting
the kinds of extreme conflicts, energetic conflicts,
that astrology is talking about.
Since Google has decided to pull out of China --
China, yes.
We don't really know what kind of a conflict,
economic conflict, that's going to cause,
that's going to trigger.
This is the kind of thing I mean.
Most people don't think of conflict in that term.
What does it mean to people who know about it,
who think about it, that the U.S. is in hock to China
for a trillion dollars?
I don't think people think of these terms.
In the same way that in the middle ages,
Tudor England was still trying to fight its wars with France
in the same clunky old equipment that the
grandfathers had fought in the dark ages.
It's the same type of paradigm shift we're seeing here.
Am I making sense?
Yes, yes.
The energies talk about conflict,
and we have to get hip to the fact
that things are moving way faster --
It doesn't necessarily mean Afghani policy.
Like you said, this could be something
with much more extensive consequences.
Just like you say, this one move for Google
pulling out of China, for example, and you're right.
People getting hip to the amount of debt we're in.
What do ordinary Americans imagine
is really behind the U.S. economy?
Do they understand that their government is broke?
Flat broke, just like they are?
I don't think so, because Bill O'Reilly says,
"We're the wealthiest nation on the planet."
Okay, so there's your answer.
There you go.
This is the discontinuity between public reality
and the energetic realities we see in the planets.
But those same people that might be
watching this kind of popular news cast, for example,
spouting off platitudes of America's position in the world,
the very same people also know others who
are losing their homes to foreclosure,
who are losing their jobs and are among
the real numbers of unemployment,
which are much closer to 20% than 10%.
We're talking about denial.
Yeah, we are talking about denial.
This is where we get the
Aquarius transits come in.
It might be a good way to segue into them.
Neptune governs denial, and in the last couple of years,
there's been kind of a sea change in the group mind,
which I look at in terms of the moon in the Sibley chart,
the USA chart, which was born July 4th, 1776,
and has its own chart
which we track transits towards.
These, if I may say briefly about them,
then I want to go back to this.
Neptune and Chiron together in the sky,
as they were all last year for what was called
the super conjunction --
Yes.
2009, and next month they're going to be peaking
in a new kind of way, February 16th, 17th, 2010.
What's the opportunity there,
if you don't mind my asking, just a couple bullet points?
Well, Neptune can be denial,
and Chiron has to do with wounds and pain.
So we cannot deny the pain
that we are in collectively and individually.
Thank you, we can't deny our pain.
We have a chance to stop denying our pain.
It gives me chills when you're
talking about that.
We have the chance, and we've been led up to it
through a relatively benefic addition of Jupiter,
which was in the conjunction last year.
A lot of people have written about this,
so I won't talk about that in detail,
but it's almost as if there was a...
Jupiter lent to the party this ingredient
of internationalizing the phenomenon
that now Neptune and Chiron are left alone to finish up.
That means that Jupiter, which makes everything
big and expansive and go beyond its boundaries,
made it undeniable to the whole world
that we're all in this together.
Then we look at the fact that these things
were conjunct on the USA moon,
and I think when you talk about the houses under water,
it's such a cosmic pun, because Neptune governs flooding,
and things being literally underwater.
Neptune also governs illusion,
and Chiron is pain, so we have a whole bunch of people
who were inundated with the illusion
that they owned their homes and they never really did.
Right.
Or the illusion that they had equity in their houses,
and they didn't.
There's thiis wrenching pain, which is very close to home,
home in another sense, the USA moon,
moon is the home in all senses of the word.
And many, many more of these to come.
Here's where you get this idea of the interchange
between Pluto, which is, remember, not so much,
Pluto and Capricorn didn't invent the corruption
of the financial system, it just exposed it.
It exposes decay to the light.
You get it squaring these
Uranian realizations in the public mind.
There's a real friction there.
People who don't want to believe,
and who go into the kind of Neptunian denial mechanisms,
which there are so many of them, aren't there?
I think that the USA is ground zero for them.
Yes.
I think consumerism is really the biggest
denial mechanism we have as a country.
If it hurts, go shopping.
Consume.
Consumerism is an interesting thing.
It's really behind peak oil.
It's really behind the whole fossil fuels obsession,
which pushes through to obsess about oil
and still we've got the governor of California
thinking that he's going to drill off the coast.
They really are still stuck on that idea
that this non-renewable resource
is worth laying waste to the environment over.
That's a form of macro-cosmic consumerism.
Right.
Then you have all these other symptoms of consumerism,
which are obesity, I guess, is the most
obvious, literal form.
Rising by the month, statistically.
It's very frightening.
It's kind of another close to home version.
This, often, if you're speaking
on an individual basis, has to do again
with pain and filling a void, or satisfying,
soothing a pain of some kind.
We're talking about it en masse.
We can lay it off to clever marketing campaigns
and strategies by the FDA and so forth,
in terms of the food pyramids changing,
and this, that, and the other thing.
The reality is, it's only to assuage pain.
I think that this is the most important point of all.
I think this is the way that we're really
going to understand how to deal with
this Neptune, Chiron, and Aquarius thing,
which goes through 2011.
You know, these transits that are around for so long
are that long-lasting, because they have something
so profound to teach.
They want us to really get it.
Chiron is a tricky planet.
It's not really a planet, you know,
it has an eccentric orbit and was only discovered
by humans in 1977.
A lot of astrologers don't even use it,
but I think it's tricky to talk about in other ways.
More importantly, that it speaks to a wound
that is hard to explain psychologically.
Of course, it can be said to mean all kinds of wounds.
We can project our inner pain on any number
of stories that explain why we hurt.
Those aren't lies.
I'm not saying that they are when I say they're stories,
but I want to suggest that the real aborigines
of Chiron pain,
date from when we incarnated and were expelled,
as it were, from the garden.
In other words, you can't really get this level
of meaning of Chiron unless you already believe
that human beings have a spiritual self,
that there is this spiritual dimension
to every human being.
Thus the indications for the awakening,
or the remembrance.
Yes, that it's all based upon the fact
that we have this cellular memory
that we were all once connected.
Of course, we still are, but what incarnation did
is make us forget that we are.
Chiron is the wound of sort of being abandoned
by the Great Mother, and the ache to go back there.
I think that's too deep and primal,
and aboriginal really for a lot of people to make sense of.
But yet, all of our deeper feelings
and behaviors are essentially validating that very point.
That's what I think.
Everything we're doing to compensate,
it's all compensatory, for the most part.
That's what I believe.
That's what I think is the real meaning
of Neptune conjunct Chiron in the sky.
As you say, the consumerism is to try to fill this void,
and gambling, what a sad thing that is.
Indian reservations, I mean, it's such black humor,
what we've done to the native peoples
and how they've pulled a fast one on us,
if you look at it in economic terms merely,
by coming out ahead materially with these hideous --
Oh well, it's a form of addiction,
and it's a form of the consumerism.
I think the fact that they've just popped up now,
like mushrooms after a rain in this Chiron period,
Chiron has been in Aquarius for about five, six years.
Neptune has been in Aquarius for about 12.
It's just now, 2009 to 2011, that they're all meeting up.
These efforts to assuage our pain
are not new, but they're becoming so blatant
that they cannot be denied, which goes back
to your original point.
It's all about denial, but now there's kind of a crossroads.
Are you going to keep going, or trying to go,
for the denial, because it'll get more and more difficult,
or are you going to be one of the ones who
really tries to brush denial off of yourself entirely
and goes with this full excitement and sense of clarity
into these years that your own soul incarnated
into for a reason?
Let me just asking something at this point,
because we're talking about the chart
of the United States, right?
Mostly.
Mostly, we're talking about the chart
of the United States.
We're talking about a phenomena that seems very
evident in the United States, in terms of every type
of over-consumerism to fill some void and some pain,
to soothe some pain.
But because of the prominence of the United States,
this has a definite passed on effect to the entire planet.
Right.
As you know, you have that very idea spelled out in the sky,
because Neptune governs universalization.
It is not particular.
It spills over boundaries, that's its job,
so the idea of increased internationalization
that we talked about
as was last year's big theme,
is now becoming even more so.
The universal ills, they started here
because we as a collective USA, also,
incarnated as the world's only super power for a reason.
If you don't believe anything is an accident,
you have to believe that too.
The fact that it has all these stunning,
the grand crosses above have all these stunning
correlations with the USA chart, isn't --
An accident.
An accident, none of it is random.
The fact that the computer revolution
started just south of here in Silicon Valley,
this is another piece that fits the transit so exactly,
it makes astrologers laugh because we think,
you can't make this stuff up.
And media, just a little further south,
in terms of whatever you want to call it, entertainment.
Yes, exactly, that's right.
Edu-tainment and what not.
I do think that the internet,
which is governed by Aquarius,
if any sign governs it, it's Aquarius,
and Neptune, which governs this universalization,
this covering the whole world, as you were suggesting,
it was the last 12 years that made
the internet what it is.
Before then, it was --
I mean, do you remember the well?
It had these little primitive beginnings,
the idea of the internet.
Yes, that's right.
Which, most of our listeners are probably
scratching their heads.
When the only video game at that time was Pong.
Pong, bing, bing, little yellow guy.
Bing, bing, bing.
I mean, it is astounding what's happened technologically,
in terms of entertainment and information.
It's happened so fast, and we can look at the fact
that the planets we're looking at,
involved in these configurations, defy time.
They're stronger than time.
They don't operate within the confines of normal,
one year to the next, calendar time.
Neptune in Aquarius, 12 years it's been.
It's revolutionized the way people interact.
I think it's going to be centuries before
sociologists have any kind of perspective
on the degree to which the internet has changed
human social interaction.
It's happened so fast that we can't even conceive of it.
The fact that they're in Aquarius,
Aquarius governs groups and collectives.
Chiron, as we say, is wounds and pain,
and I think that so much of the social networking
is covering up a deep loneliness.
That's what I was just going to ask next.
It creates a type of connectivity that we have lost
the feel for on kind of an indigenous level.
Right, and it isn't true that Aquarius has to be that.
Aquarius governs a kind of a righteous,
I mean that in the positive sense of the word,
friendship, where in its classical meaning,
Aquarius is the sign of a meeting of like minds,
and an idealistic kind of intellectual coming together,
whereby groups and an individual can meet up with a group
in just the right way to share her skills
by first becoming an individual herself.
By the way, we can't skip that step.
Righteous Aquarius implies that things
are done in that order.
We become a unique individual
and we are clear on our personhood,
and then we come together and convene
with large groups of people.
So, the internet is the absolute perfect tool --
It has done wonderful things.
...to have arrived exactly on cue.
We're totally not putting it down,
but when we look at Chiron's involvement,
we're being forced to look at the loneliness
and the isolation, ironically,
which is the shadow of all of this.
Every conjunction, dinky or huge and epochal,
has a shadow side,
as well as this world-altering epochal side.
We know which side of these things we want to be on,
but to get out of denial, we have to look in them both.
So, again, we're putting salve on this
deep feeling of not being part of,
of deep, deep inner kind of longing and loneliness,
by the salve is the internet, for example.
People texting and Twittering by the moment, practically.
And friending.
We should have known, shouldn't we have,
when the word friend became a verb,
that something was really weird.
Yeah, friending.
So we're seeing the shadow and the possibilities.
We're seeing the medicine for it, that people feel
they can reach into right now,
but there's a larger medicine.
What about reclaiming our genuine sense of connection
with each other, self, and beyond?
Right.
That is the golden core
of Neptune and Chiron in Aquarius.
For those who do ritual, the middle of next month
would be a wonderful time.
We're talking the middle of February.
The 16th and 17th of February, 2010,
is one of these times.
It's not confined to those times,
and as I say, it'll go through 2011.
Even after that, these two will be neck and neck
for a while, but for people who do ritual,
in this spirit that you're talking about,
to zone in on the very highest potential,
rather than the lowest and sort of unconscious
symptomologies that we're seeing that we talked about.
Neptune is the spiritualization
of whatever it touches, and Chiron is pain,
and Aquarius is the group, the collective.
We are to, I guess,
go to the deeper well within ourselves
to, en masse, transcend this pain?
Yes, to transcend our individual pain
by understanding the aboriginal nature of group pain.
That, it's interesting, the chart for that exact conjunction
shows a moon in Aries and a bunch of other features
which suggests that to half understand it
implies a certain degree of delusional selfishness.
That is one side of this thing, another thing not to do,
but to get out of denial, we have to look at
the temptations around us,
and how many people are giving in to that.
It reminds me of the kind of thinking that
people who are arguing against healthcare reform
were into when they really weren't thinking.
Because they had insurance, they really weren't thinking
about the millions who didn't.
It was clear that they didn't give a fig about them.
It's delusional.
It's in denial about the state of the collective,
and it's also this kind of icky selfishness.
Now, if we're going to get to the golden core,
we have to go back to what Neptune promises,
which is that we really are all interconnected.
It's not just a new age cliche,
it's the truth behind all other truths.
To live from there, I mean to actually live your life
as if that was so, is to see all these other connections
for what they are, which are illusions.
It's okay to have illusion in your life
if you understand the real illusions,
to name them as such.
Such as the fact that countries have boundaries.
If everything is flooded with global warming,
I'm not saying that I'm seeing this happening,
but clearly, water levels are rising.
We're given, if nothing else, the hint of this,
so that we can think about it
and consider the implications.
You know the, in Copenhagen, in December,
how there was this wonderful bit of guerilla theatre
by the President of Maldives,
when he held his cabinet meeting under water.
Because what, his whole island is seven miles
above sea level only, so his will be
the first to be flooded.
This was the canary in the mind.
I think that the whole cosmos is giving us
a little bit of guerilla theatre here, like he did,
to say that you who take your
nationalisms so seriously,
the patriots of all the countries who consider
that your own countries are so inviolate
that you should and can build walls.
Israel is building a new wall now on their Egyptian border
to keep out the African migrants.
Yes, I've read about it.
After boycotting, and I can't even talk about
what they're doing to Palestine, it's so painful.
We're doing the same thing, the USA,
on our southern border with Mexico.
When you look at it through Neptune's eyes,
if we can anthropomorphize and imagine
what the great god who says, "There are no such things
"as separations, it's all illusion."
What must he think of this folly?
Then you can see how these telluric activities,
like global warming and this terrible earthquake in Haiti,
which happened right on the eclipse,
two days before the eclipse,
where everything is crumbled down.
Pluto destruction, Capricorn structures.
It's all written --
But does this not bring up an opportunity
to have a global response?
To have a global heart of sorts?
Well, the point I'm trying to make now
is that these are symptoms of energetic themes,
that if we saw these, not to disconnect
from the human level.
If we take Neptune's wisdom to heart,
we'll see that it might as well have been us.
Neptune is that kind of compassion
that sees no distinction between human groups.
If something terrible happens to them,
it is to happen to us.
But the global warming I'm trying to speak to,
actually, I'm trying to tell people
not to be afraid of it, because if they consider it
as a symbol, they'll realize why the cosmos made it up,
to make us realize that the parameters
that we put on our countries are arbitrary.
They're silly.
It's to get trans-national immediately in our thinking.
Yet, at the same time,
some of the people listening to this right now
from around the world would say,
"Oh goodness, and that brings us right up against
"new world order, globalization," and all these
other concepts that are also,
that humanity is being presented with
because of some of the dysfunction of other parts of,
not just the U.S.'s chart, but other factors.
It's not by accident, I suppose, that greed and corruption,
they've always existed, but that they have come to reign
so extensively around the planet now.
You come into this human understanding
that we do need to be a global human species.
We do need to look beyond borders.
Then you come up against, "But I don't want
"the people that are trying to control the global show
"to be in control of me."
What happens in there when you're looking at --
Yeah, that's a very good question.
It depends on a lot of faith.
Before I answer it, may we take a break?
Yes.
We've taken our little tea break and warmed up a bit.
It was chilly in here.
Now, let's get back to the question that I posed
just before we broke, which is,
universality of spirit versus new world order,
heavily contrived, heavily controlled
by the same groups of people that have been
perpetrating this and foisting it on the planet
for a very long time now.
There's so many levels to talking about
something like this.
One is very esoteric,
and one is sort of on the ground, like,
"But what about these governments?
"What about what the CIA is up to?"
What about this and that?
In literal, which is absolutely real,
and then one is kind of intermediate,
which says, "Well, that's a symbol of this and that."
It all gets kind of difficult to express.
I'm going to start with the most esoteric of all,
which is, I believe we create our own reality,
and I don't believe it in a conditional way.
I believe that it's unconditionally true.
I believe that we, as individuals, create our own reality,
as even the psychologists will agree
in terms of self-fulfilling prophecy and so on.
They've noticed this is true on that level.
I agree that collectives, I believe that collectives
create our own reality.
I look at the chart of the USA
and I see that in 2022 when Pluto returns,
we could either go bust in every sense of the word,
or we could completely remake ourselves over
and hold on to the thread of identity
that is the very best of the USA as it was once conceived.
It's not written yet. It's a potential.
There's a choice point.
Yes, a choice point, we're at a choice point.
Choice point is a good phrase.
I would say that, and this is the same thing
people ask me when they consider
these dire transits going on.
Yeah, they're dire, but if we take
all value judgement away, all you get is intensity.
Yes.
If people could conceive of looking at things
without the good-bad dualism,
which is very difficult for people.
We're completely brainwashed into thinking,
"Well, it has to be good or it has to be bad.
"There isn't any other way."
What if it was just intense?
What if it was just energy?
What if it was the kind of energy that we see
up in the sky right now that would squeeze
a new result (makes popping noise)
out of an old set of circumstances?
That's the way I see the cardinal cross happening.
Now, when you talk about the types of dark
or shadow versions of these controlling elements,
astrologers mostly look at the Saturn-Pluto piece
of the cardinal cross as being that.
It's reaction.
Throughout history, there have been
some very ugly authoritative agencies
which have contrived to dominate,
in terms of financial, physical, life and death
power over other people.
It is associated with oppression on that level,
with governmental fascism.
Of course, that is in there.
It's one of the dark multitudes of potential
in the patterns we're seeing.
They're so intense, how could it not be in there?
We're talking about life and death transits.
The issue seems to be with
the disempowered people.
Yes, the issue is with empowerment or not.
Yes.
If you take on the most individual level,
and transpersonal psychology has made
a very good case for this,
that if every person were empowered
in terms of what she or he could do,
which astrologically translates to,
"If they would only live through their charts,
"and stop barking up the wrong tree
"of somebody else's externally
"derived sense of standards,"
then we would be more powerful
than we could ever imagine.
If everyone did that.
This goes back to, I think, the thing
we were saying at the very beginning,
which is the dividing the sheep from the goats time.
That makes for a powerful choice point,
not one that is reactionary in nature.
Well, if we react, we're dead meat now.
We are reacting, in fear for the most part.
Well, there are huge numbers of people
who are reacting through fear.
Yeah, the majority seem to be.
The difference between using,
Saturn is the ingredient of the mix that
tells us about that piece.
Saturn is either reaction or response,
which is the root of responsibility.
And response is from an empowered individual.
You can only respond when you're right in the moment,
so then we get back to the idea of being in the now.
But to react is to be squeezed up and entrenched,
which is the way we were describing the forces earlier
when we were looking at the Saturn-Uranus opposition.
We were saying, it's the forces of reform
and wanting to change, versus these
entrenched old agencies.
But that's only dark Saturn.
Light Saturn, or the more spiritually mature way
of using that piece of the sky we're under,
is maturity, which is a way to respond
to whatever's happening.
Only grown-ups can do that.
Yes, that would be correct,
and we don't have a history --
I mean spiritual grown-ups.
Yes, spiritual grown-ups.
We don't have a history of that as a culture just yet.
No, but now we're under such intense pressures
that there isn't any choice to fence-straddle.
I think we're saying the same thing in different ways.
My way of understanding why, for example,
global warming came along, was,
I know this sounds like a sacrilege to say,
but it's the biggest blessing humanity ever had
because it's forcing what we were twiddling
our thumbs over before, in terms of
the kinds of awarenesses.
Now we have to see we're all in this together.
Like this little guy, I mean this little island,
the Maldives president who held his summit meeting
underwater was trying to explain,
that we're all in this together.
It's my island first, but it could be yours next,
and it will be.
To imagine the whole world as a unified whole
is exactly what Neptune is about.
It just takes a half an inch more step
to understand that it isn't even just countries
that are all in this together,
it's every sentient being in the cosmos.
It's every being, even inanimate being
in the cosmos, that we're all in this together.
That's ultimately the meaning of Neptune.
That is undeniable.
The light and dark of how it plays out is our choice.
It's our choice, and it's our choice at every moment.
When you consider, again this is a question of faith,
I can't really spell it out in rational terms
and have it make sense to everyone,
nor would I want to proselytize this.
I can only say that my understanding
of these metaphysical laws
are that light is everything,
and shadow is only the absence of light.
In a way, I don't really believe in light and dark
as being two equal polarities.
I think of, for example, a misused planet
as being just that.
It's because the person hasn't gotten hip
to the real meaning of the planet.
Yes, very true.
It's more a function of ignorance.
It's ignorance.
And lack of maturity.
Which there's nothing wrong with ignorance
that can't be corrected.
Right.
Then we get to information,
which is another thing I would like to put in here
if I were going to give a recommendation about
how people could line themselves up to be,
when we all find ourselves at the threshold,
to be on the path that goes towards the light
instead of keeping in denial,
is to get clean information.
Hard to find.
This is why we need CMN,
and their are other blogs that have some kind of rigor
and that are using the same kind of clean intelligence
that the best of the old media had.
We're very all too aware of the blogs that aren't,
but there are more and more blogs that are.
Yes.
And the underground press,
and guerilla theatre,
and demonstrations in the street.
I think we should be seeing more of this.
It's a very direct way to get the word out.
There was last month's Berkeley demonstrations
at UC Berkeley.
There's nothing like young people shouting through
a bullhorn and getting people to think about
the fact that there are all these students
that can't get into classes,
meanwhile President Yudof is getting, what,
a million dollars in a compensation package?
I know, criminal.
This is very, very effective
as a way to get clean information out.
Street demonstrations, it's gone out of favor a little bit,
but I think it'll come back.
This is Uranus.
This is the part of the grand cross that is Uranus,
the people rising up.
This is a long-winded way of answering your question,
which is that when individuals are out of denial,
which isn't, I want to say here,
the jury's still not out yet about this denial piece,
because all of this year we're going to have
Neptune and Chiron asking us,
"Are you going to get out of denial?
"Are you going to get out of denial?"
Again and again with all these different ways.
Neptune is lies.
Chiron is pain.
Self-delusion is the drug.
This is going to be hugely up all of this year, 2010, 2011.
To those people who step up to the plate
and make some kind of a more dramatic
statement about their own self-actualization
than they've ever made before,
because they never have had to before.
These transits are, literally, unprecedented.
Then they're going to have to live through their charts
in a new way, because that's all they've got,
and that's all they need.
You mean authentic living?
Authentically.
When they do, it's stronger than shadow.
It just is.
Absolutely.
If your remember back to the days when
the New York Times was witnessing
all of these demonstrations before
the Pentagon bombed Iraq in shock and awe.
They were all over the world, every major big city,
millions of people were coming out.
Yes.
The New York Times had the prescience to say,
"There are now two super powers in the world.
"The U.S. government and world public opinion."
World public opinion has it all over the U.S. government.
Yes. (laughs)
If you think of the numbers,
you can do it that way and you'd still
come to the same conclusion.
But if you came to the idea that I really meant
when I was introducing this esoterically,
the power of light has it all over the power of dark.
Dark doesn't even have any power.
Yes.
That's Uranus and I think it's going to win,
and I think Jupiter is going to expand the explosion.
I think it's going to be like a spark to dry straw
this summer.
I think if you want to look to a particular point
to do rituals at, to breath this vision into being,
it would be the lunar eclipse on June 26th,
where we're going to have seven planets no less
involved in this grand cross.
Wow, that's powerful.
I think that a good practice for people
can be to take the four pieces of the cross apart
and make a commitment
to live through its highest expression,
each one in order.
First of all, there's Saturn, whose highest expression
is not fear, that's its shadow expression.
It's maturity.
To take responsibility for being alive right now,
right here in this moment,
with the skills I have, nobody else's.
It's absolutely enough.
And Uranus, which is the strength of inventive ideas,
which is going to be joined by Jupiter,
so it's a wise and knowledgeable use of invention
rather than some wacky --
It won't be a pet rock. (laughs)
Won't be a pet rock.
There may be a few very odd fads.
Look at the internet, it's full of them,
but we're talking about making choices here.
Then there's Pluto, in the planet of,
in the sign rather, of physical structures,
decaying, breaking down.
Physical structures of the earth too, you know,
which means tectonic plates.
Yes, we didn't get into that,
and I know that is a portion of it.
But also physical structures meaning material structures,
which are symbolized by financial structures.
Right.
That they're breaking down and their decay
is becoming too obvious to ignore,
and making sure you're on the right side of that.
Well, there was a couple emails
that came in this morning to CMN.
Bank failures would be one extension of that,
as just one small example of the decay.
Exactly, exactly.
It's the example that's caught
a lot of people's attention,
which is the only reason these things,
speaking as an astrologer, happen,
is to catch our attention.
That's why global warming, you know.
It's whatever it takes to get the people to wake up,
which is what I meant before by...
So we have Saturn, Uranus, Pluto topped with...
Okay, and I think that Cancer, the last pull
of the square, leads us back to the days when,
and I think we have cellular memory of this,
when people understood the earth as a mother.
Cancer is the sign of the mother on many levels.
The primordial mother earth,
that's now thought of even by the scientists
in terms of the Gaia theory,
and by the Wiccans in a spiritual way, in a religious way
as the mother goddess.
Now we have the idea that she took care of us
in the way that is filled with a kind of
an intimate sense of love.
You know, Cancer is a water sign,
so this is a very personal kind of an emotional feeling.
It's the only piece of the grand cross
that has this quality.
And that, as an infant feels towards its mother,
we have this gut-deep sense of allegiance to the earth
now that she's in peril,
and that we must take care of her as well,
that it goes both ways.
Extending into the human family, it's also --
I believe even the Dalai Lama was quoted as saying recently,
that he feels that the leaders
of the way out and beyond into our more spiritual state
is going to come about through western women,
the leadership of western women.
Right.
So this extends to the feminine in general.
It's going to have to reclaim the feminine,
even on the level of gender leadership.
It's interesting you say leadership.
That's the one piece we didn't spell out.
The cardinal signs involved in these formations
are the signs of leadership.
Even on an individual level, to step up
and be the leader of your own life,
which is another way of saying to live authentically
and in an empowered way.
It isn't possible, in my belief system,
for the big, mean old dark powers
to scrub you out when you do that.
It isn't possible.
Yes.
When we're talking about, I want to just
make this one statement as we're talking about women
rising more to the forefront.
We're not talking necessarily politically,
but just more in terms of a maturity of influence
on a spiritual level.
That also includes the feminine in all beings,
men and women.
It's the feminine aspect.
Yes, it's the yin that this past 5,000-year period
of patriarchy and dominance-submission models
has almost wiped out,
but we've gotten very stereotypical, haven't we,
when we think about the anima and the animas in gender,
which is Jung's way of saying basically the same thing,
that we're all bisexual spiritually speaking.
It sometimes seems kind of ridiculous to me
that people forget that it's a continuum,
whether you're talking about sexual persuasion,
homosexuality or heterosexuality,
and never the twain shall meet.
Which Kinsey, by the way, blew that out of the water.
He showed that wasn't true.
Right.
Or whether you're talking about
the softness and ability to weep --
Flexibility.
...and the ability to feel empathy
that we can see in gender males,
and the warriorship that we can see in gender females.
We've got to stop being so stereotypical about these things.
If we look at the whole arc of
what I call the sky-god religions,
when they sort of took over about five millennia ago,
the whole arc of that has gone way too far
in the yang direction,
and is dying for the yin to be called back in.
I would tie up that loose end by reiterating
this piece of the astrology,
that the T-square in the sky has as its linchpin,
Cancer, one of the most feminine signs in the zodiac,
and the sign that governs the type of wisdom
which mothers have.
Not just literal mothers, as you say,
but the ability --
The nurturing quality, the healing.
...to nurture, to feed, to protect,
to care for.
It's come out in these men's crises that the world faces,
that human beings are running around
like chickens with their heads cut off trying to explain,
when it's as obvious as pie,
that it's about care-taking coming back,
and not fouling your own nest.
Any mother bird knows that.
For us all to take a cue from the wisdom of Cancer.
There was one area that we did not talk about
that we had talked about off-camera,
and I don't know if it's appropriate
or if you still choose to go into it,
and it is the subject of jihad in this entire mix.
It's one of those big paradigm-shifting subjects,
one of several themes that is putting people
in such a panic that they can't see
something very, very simple.
That is that it's nonsense
to imagine that you can
squash out the Arab world's grievances
with bombs and more pain.
I think that most thinking people
have already reached this conclusion,
but I'll just spell it out in the terms of an astrologer.
That is really what no more or less,
I almost hesitate to say, than Osama Bin Ladin himself
spelled out when he said, "We want you to stop
"putting your occupying forces in lands
"sacred to Islam.
"We want you to stop bombing innocent Muslim people,
"and we want you to stop bank-rolling
"Israel's slaughtering of the Palestinians."
Really very simple.
You know, these are simple sort of common sense things
which, to bring it back to the feminine,
I think that any woman or any man
who is in touch with his inner mothering
would see this if we allowed ourselves to sink back in.
You would think.
It takes turning off the TV, first step.
Absolutely, because there is
a fair amount of persuasion, i.e. brain-washing,
that's going on regarding all of this.
This is the clean information part.
We are a mind controlled culture in that sense,
a perception-controlled culture.
Absolutely.
When that TV is turned off, when the clean information
is made a part of a life --
Yes.
...very common sense answers start to rise up.
It just makes me furious when I see,
very frustrated I think, when I see
essays by, you know, writers who should know better,
who are saying things like, "What does the Arab world want?"
They want what every human being wants.
This is it.
I remember reading, when Sigmund Freud had the gall
to say, "What do women want?"
You know, he's puffing on his cigar,
and you want to say, "Uh, they want the right to vote.
"They want to own their own property."
We're talking about the same thing.
Basic freedoms.
Freedom, and not just the freedom to buy stuff.
Right.
Well, you said that.
Well, let's see, with everything we've talked about,
each thing has so much depth.
Let's go back to, let's now wrap it up by looking at,
and I think we have covered a fair amount of this,
at what kind of a state of being
we would best embrace to be able to meet
these collective challenges in a way that is healing,
that helps us ascend our own belief systems,
whatever obstacles there have been
to the healing of, not just what we've looked at here,
of the economy and so forth,
but actually the maturation of our species.
What can we do with all these challenges at our doorstep?
A lot of people say, "But I'm one person,
"how am I going to stop it?"
What can every one person do to play their part out
in this process of maturation?
Yeah.
You know, the whole idea of, where does the individual
fit in to the group crises, is itself something
we talked about when we mentioned
the meaning of the Aquarius transits.
Yes.
They are asking all of us to work on this conundrum.
If I can't be a self-actualized individual,
how can I possibly help any group I'm a part of?
That's a very key point.
It's a very defeatist attitude
to think because I'm one, and I can't change
the outcome of the whole, I shouldn't bother myself.
I mean that's, no.
You really can't break through this
until you reach a spiritual place with it.
I have to say that, it sounds like an ultimatum,
but these transits really can't,
their code can't be cracked unless
you come at them from a spiritual point of view.
Otherwise, they don't make any sense.
They'll just raise more conflict
and misunderstanding.
You already have to assume, I think,
that this is a birth agony, a birth throes,
of the human species that, again,
we each decided to be part of in some unfathomable way.
When we were not yet incarnate,
we decided we wanted to be here for the show.
To get back to remembering,
remembering isn't quite the right word, is it?
Because it isn't conscious perhaps,
but to sink into a part of a level of self
that is in touch already, and has never been out of touch,
with the fact that
we did make that pact,
and we are here now.
And we better step up.
And we better step up, what else is there to do?
Not just for the collective,
but individually as well.
We owe it to ourselves.
Well, here's where you get to the natal chart,
which is just spelled out in black and white.
Everybody's own individual birth chart
tells us very clearly where their strengths
and talents lies, and where the pains,
the Chironic points are.
Of course, people don't want to think about this.
A lot of even spiritual thinkers would rather,
"Oh, I don't want to talk about my pain anymore.
"I worked that out in 10 years of psychotherapy."
But we're talking about accepting pain in this case,
and in this year particular, not as if it was a pathology.
I know that sounds so bizarre to a lot of people,
but to use it as a medicine path,
to let it lead you to this point of remembering
that we're all in the same stew here.
This is the Neptune-Chiron.
Once you work through your chart,
with its pains, with its skills, with its genius,
the placement of Uranus in your chart
shows you where you are a genius potentially.
Its artistry, look at your Venus,
its force of character and bravery, which is your Mars,
and on, and on, and on.
Then you, after that interpretation has been
allowed to sink in, you lay against the backdrop of it,
the cardinal cross, or the transits that are happening now.
That's the answer to your question.
How do I, as a self-actualized individual,
fit in with this incredible world-altering backdrop?
Well, and we already talked about the dates.
We're looking at February 16th and 17th,
for any kind of ritual around this.
Also, the lunar eclipse on June 26th,
so you've given us a few dates that we can work with,
where there are likely to be many
working with these dates at the same time.
There's a type of connectivity too.
Any final thoughts?
You've stated everything so beautifully, as always.
Any final thoughts, Jessica?
I want to see people get into an aliveness
about this and see how damned exciting it is.
I think to realize that we're on the same team
as the transits up there.
The transits up there are just symbols, of course.
They're not making anything happen,
but the cosmos, as the Bioneers
say so eloquently, it's all connected.
It's all intelligent.
It's all alive, and we're part of it.
How exciting is that?
Yes, and we need to find the passion
that's been more or less stomped out.
But it's in there.
It's in there.
It's definitely in there.
If you're breathing, you still have it in there.
If you're breathing, it's in there.
It's still in there.
On that note, thank you so much, Jessica,
and we will touch base as all of this progresses,
once again, probably about a year from now
and see what the opportunity is then.
Wonderful.
Thank you.
If you would like to get a bit of historical perspective
on what's led up to the situations
we find ourselves in today,
please feel free to watch our first two
interviews with Jessica.
Also, she explains much of what we spoke of
in her book, "Soul-Sick Nation,"
which you can buy through Amazon
and other major book-sellers.
You can also follow her blog at
MotherSky.com.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(gentle instrumental music)